you've just been pushed out of an
airplane up high in the skies of brazil
and there's nothing but you your
parachute and the ground far below you
and it's getting closer by the second
open
open oh you useless backpack
phew finally but you notice
you're now gliding straight oh no
you're falling down into the amazon
river there's nowhere to escape
now splash you're in the water
covered by the heavy canvas you push it
aside
struggling for breath and trying to find
your bearings
but as soon as you free yourself from
the parachute trap
you notice some strange movements
underwater
there's one dark silhouette circling
around you
hey there's one more two
three five there's a whole school of
fish
and they seem to be a little too
interested in you
oh no you freeze in horror
paranas all you want to do is scream and
fear and get away
but wait piranhas are calm and even a
bit shy
they usually won't go after humans in
fact
it's like with most animals they're
afraid of you
more than you are afraid of them plus
they're more of scavengers than hunters
so they're not really that into you
but if you make any sudden moves they
might panic
and want to come and check out what's
going on with their
teeth of course some piranha species are
even
vegetarian don't get your hopes up too
high though
these surrounding you probably wouldn't
say no
to some nice human steak so yeah
either stay calm or try to move really
slowly
red-bellied piranhas the most dangerous
species among them all
have very good hearing and react to
noise
that's how they locate their prey the
entire school communicates
by sending signals to each other when
they find potential prey
try not to become it by yelling
red-bellied piranhas not only hunt when
they hear noise
but they also produce it themselves if
you pick one up
or if it faces another fish the piranha
barks like a dog
like they aren't scary enough already
don't throw away your parachute just yet
if there's anything in your backpack try
to protect your hands and feet
these are vulnerable easily accessible
and probably
quite tasty targets piranhas might go
for
their jaw is strong enough to crush bone
so some solid shoes and thick gloves
will come in handy
movies often present piranhas as
ferocious monsters with a huge set
of saws for teeth no wonder we're all
afraid of them
after seeing them ruin all the lake fun
during the spring break
hollywood actually picked it up from
theodore roosevelt
at the beginning of the 20th century he
wrote a book
where he described piranhas as the most
ferocious fish in the world
he said he saw a school of these fish
deal with an entire cow in a matter of
seconds
well it might not be entirely like that
research showed this is not quite a
typical situation
when humans or some bigger animals face
piranhas
yes their razor teeth are really
insanely sharp
and around one quarter of an inch long
it's common that marine animals such as
sharks and piranhas
often lose their teeth sharks lose them
one by
one while piranhas replace them in
quarters
piranhas have a strong bite and the
reason why they can
actually take down animals many times
their size
is that they don't waste any time
chewing as they snap their jaws and bite
down
the food simply goes into their bellies
they rotate
change position all the time bite their
prey and take turns
incredibly fast so if you see that
boiling
water effect going on it spells trouble
mega piranha the ancient relative of
today's fish
lived around 10 million years ago and
had an insanely strong bite
t-rex's bite for example was only three
times stronger
despite being way bigger than mega
piranha
which only weighed around 22 pounds
we're not part of their everyday diet
piranhas are more likely to go after
animal remains
or some sick old animal that can't even
move properly
hopefully you're not close to their eggs
because they won't hesitate to use their
teeth
to protect them that and the situation
when they're literally starving
those are some moments where their
attack can be a little bit extreme
like with that cow from roosevelt story
still research says dealing with a
bigger animal like that within 5 minutes
requires around 500 piranhas
which is definitely a lot more than any
recorded wild school
in fact the common shoal size is often
around 20
so they'll need a bit more to take you
down
slow moving shallow and warm water is
something they prefer
to chill and breed so if you have the
chance
try moving to deeper colder water with
stronger and faster currents
okay so you managed to escape piranhas
you're swimming
the river is taking you far away and oh
no a fin is heading your way as if the
amazon river is not scary enough
already now it needs to have sharks too
and it's not just any shark we're
talking about the bull shark
one of the most dangerous species
related to tiger and white sharks
plus it even has the strongest bite of
them all
piranha who these guys are in way more
movies than them
bull sharks can be found in both salt
water and fresh water
and they simply love warm shallow
river-type waters
yes like where you are at the moment
they don't rear their young or lay eggs
similar to mammals
their pups are born live which is why
they prefer
to go for fresh water habitat they eat
turtles
birds crustaceans and other fish those
that live in africa
sometimes even attack hippos they're not
often lucky with those beasts though
they're really not that picky when it
comes to food so
i doubt they'll refuse a tasty bite
swimming towards them
even though the only thing you want is
to catapult yourself as far as possible
at that moment
try to stay calm maybe a shark is just
chilling because
it already ate too much so it's passing
you by without any interest
sparkling in its eyes move slowly float
and keep an eye on the shark wait for it
to swim away from you
oh no maybe the first one doesn't feel
like going after you
but the second one came a little bit too
close
okay different rules then these animals
prefer
easy meals that will swim into their
mouths so
they will certainly appreciate if you
don't defend yourself
which is exactly what you should do go
for sensitive body parts
such as eyes gills and nose especially
if you have some sharp objects
when in shallow water take a defensive
position
and stand firmly on the ground show off
a little bit
with all those moves you used to watch
in martial arts movies
if there are reefs rocks or some other
firm objects around you
back up against them so the shark can't
surprise you from the back
if you're in open water it would be
better to have a companion
to take a back to back position so you
can cover all directions boom
you got it in the eye startled the shark
is leaving but don't relax just yet it
will probably return
after its eye goes back to normal now
it's time to let
out all your panic and swim away as fast
as you can
to finally leave water and all those
creatures
lurking under the surface you get out to
the shore
breathing heavily and try to relax
hopefully it's over now haven't you gone
through enough
oh no another noise what is it now